Q. How does argo-cd help with deployments in Kubernetes?

Argo CD is a continuous delivery tool for Kubernetes that follows a declarative, GitOps approach to manage 
application deployments. This means that application definitions, configurations, and environments are version 
controlled and declared in a YAML file or a set of files stored in a Git repository. With Argo CD, you can easily 
manage and version your application deployments. It continuously monitors your Git repository for changes and 
automatically deploys and synchronizes your application with the actual state of the Kubernetes cluster. Argo CD 
also provides a simple and safe way to roll back your application to a previous version in case of issues. It 
allows you to easily revert to a previous deployment version and updates the Kubernetes cluster to match the
previous state.


Q. What will be the alternate option to achieve a canary release?

Alternatives to a canary release is a rolling release, where updates are gradually rolled out to a subset of 
servers, allowing for easier monitoring and the ability to roll back changes if necessary and a blue-green 
deployment, where two identical production environments are maintained, with only one active at a time. 
This minimizes the risk of downtime during updates and ensures a fully operational environment is always available.
This one is widely used in the industries.

Blue/Green Deployment involves having two identical production environments, with only one active at a time. 
This minimizes the risk of downtime during updates, and ensures a fully operational environment is always 
available.

Rolling Deployment is a strategy of gradually deploying updates to a subset of servers, allowing for easier 
monitoring and the ability to roll back changes if necessary. It is commonly used for updating stateless 
applications








References:
https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
https://martinfowler.com/bliki/BlueGreenDeployment.html
https://itsfoss.com/rolling-release/
https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CanaryRelease.html